
For over a century, phased array antennas have been widely utilized in communication systems and radar applications. A phased array antenna is a collection of antennas working together to provide a wider range of features not available with a single antenna. The array system within the antenna has N number of elements, to which the direction of the transmitted beam is changed by varying the relative phase of the signal applied to each element [1]. Phased array antenna technology has been advancing rapidly as military applications continue to demand improvements. 
The military has been heavily involved in the development of antenna arrays since the 1940’s. One of the earliest array radars was built by the Army which bounced radar signals off the moon [2]. By the 1950’s, MIT’s Lincoln Laboratory began working on a phased-array radar to be used by the U.S Air Force to detect satellites passing over the United States. Their research led to the use of electronic phasing of individual array antenna elements to steer the radar beam with higher flexibility and speed compared to mechanical steering[2]. The Laboratory first proposed a hybrid radar that combined mechanically and electronically scanned linear antenna-array configurations. This model offered greater power and receiving aperture, and rapid wide-angle scan. However, it had its limitations as it was limited to tracking while in scan-mode only and restricted by its search window[2]. The need for a fast repositioning radar beam antenna became more apparent as the military shifted their focus on missile detection and defense. 
The Fleet Department of the Applied Physics Laboratory in Laurel, Maryland has also played a key role in the development of phased array antennas. The Advanced Multifunction Array Radar (AMFAR) program successfully met demands by developing a phase shifter used as the key element in producing two small 48-element subarrays that established the feasibility of phase shifters, power dividers, beam steering, and aperture impedance matching[3]. During the  program many technical challenges were overcome, like phase shifter and power divider arcing. Much of their technological findings were incorporated in the upgrades of the SPY-1 Aegis Radar that is a multi-function, 3D air search radar for detecting, tracking, and providing desrcimination of data on missile threats.  In the 1970’s the laboratory began developing concepts for coordinating the action for the Navy’s battleship fleets. Their motivation to develop a phased array antenna to steer rapidly to wider diverse angles led to the development of a cylindrical-array antenna prototype for the Navy’s Corporate Engagement Capability program in the 1980’s[3]. The antenna provided 360° azimuth scanning capability without gain loss or azimuthal broadening common with wide-angle scanning in planar phased array[3]. The laboratory also developed a phased array antenna using patch radiators elements still used in many modern day antennas. Additionally, their contributions have had a leading role in devising and perfecting active-aperture antenna technology for the Navy’s radar and communications systems[3]. 
For the past century, the main issue with the development of phased array antennas has been expenses. For better performance, the cost grew higher and many research programs came to a halt. The goal of modern research today in phased array antennas is to reduce cost while achieving greater performance. 
